Create README_alpha-release_Marconi.md (#591)
input-output-hk/plutus-apps: plutus-chain-index/README_alpha-release_Marconi.md

> ![Marconi-Logo_sm](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104791413/178748103-077ed7e0-6071-461f-b9ed-97b3b7bd5b24.png)

Reviewer: I don't like it, but that's okay :D

> ![Marconi-Logo_sm](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104791413/178748103-077ed7e0-6071-461f-b9ed-97b3b7bd5b24.png)

Reviewer 2: I actually have no idea why this is called Marconi so I have no idea if the logo fits.

Reviewer: Since IOG has a tradition of using famous scientists for product names (Ada, Cardano, Basho, Goguen, etc.). Marconi is a famous italian scientist. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guglielmo_Marconi

I don't think the logo has to fit the person. Similar with Cardano; it's logo doesn't really fit.

Author: This is the first idea that we explored with a graphic designer. I basically like it. Taking on logo design can be a big project, and mostly I'm happy we have something we can use. I think it's worth asking the deeper question of what the logo should truly be. But the nuts and bolts of going through a true design process can be very time consuming.

Reviewer 3: I think the logo represents a radio which Marconi invented.

# Marconi Alpha Release

## The Cardano blockchain indexer for dApp developers

> Marconi is a lightweight, customizable solution for dApp developers who need to index and query the Cardano blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Marconi is a lightweight, customizable chain follower application and library for dApp developers who need to index and query the Cardano blockchain.
```
CC @raduom

Marconi gives you the ability to customize the set of data that is indexed. It provides a library of functionality with which you can do the following:
* build your own indexers, 
* work only with the data that you care about for your application, 
* use whatever storage engine you prefer, and 
* support only the queries that you need to support.

### Scalability through Customized Solutions for Each Use Case

The philosophy behind Marconi is to maintain scalability by customizing the solution for each use case. You can filter the streams of information to transmit only the data you need for your dApp, minimizing network traffic and database storage. You can also customize database schemas and queries so that the dApps have the most efficient and scalable application-specific API to interact with the data.

### Indexing solution ### 

Any indexing solution must deal with blockchain rollbacks, which can happen as the network achieves consensus. Marconi is designed to deal with rollbacks as elegantly as possible while simultaneously finding an effective balance between memory, disk and CPU usage. 

> Managing rollbacks is very simple and fast. Marconi drops the events that were rolled back. No complicated logic is required to undo the projection of the list of events on disk, which Marconi would need if it stored everything on disk as quickly as possible. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Managing rollbacks is very simple and fast. Marconi drops the events that were rolled back. Because the events that can be rolled back are stored in memory, no complicated logic is required to undo the projection of the list of events on disk, which Marconi would need if it stored everything on disk as quickly as possible. 
```

> Making `K` configurable makes the design quite scalable. Developers do not usually need to guard themselves against rollbacks by `K` blocks, so they can choose to store only 10 events in memory, for example, thereby sacrificing the speed by which Marconi handles rollbacks (since rollbacks on data that is persisted on disk is more expensive than data that is in memory). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Making `K` configurable makes the design quite scalable. Developers do not usually need to guard themselves against rollbacks by `K` blocks, so they can choose to store only 10 events in memory, for example, thereby sacrificing the correctness of handling rollbacks for memory usage.
```

This is actually false the way it is written now. Rollbacks will never affect disk state. In this case if a rollback will happen that is longer than 10 blocks, then the DB will be corrupted.

In the event of a restart, recovery is very simple. Marconi stores only fully confirmed transactions, so there is nothing to do other than to load the state persisted on disk and to follow the blockchain from the corresponding chain-point. 

## Queries

> The indexed data is accessible through queries. There are no constraints on the format of queries or on the results. Both are identified by a type variable that the indexer exposes. The user, such as a dApp developer, provides the code for both. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The indexed data is accessible through queries. There are no constraints on the format of queries or on the results. Both are identified by a type variable that the indexer exposes. The user, such as a dApp developer, provides the code for the query, result types and the functions used to query and store events on disk. 
```

> This is currently the only area where you can customize the indexer by providing functions that handle queries and storage. Note that the queries have to run on both the in-memory data and the data that is stored.

Reviewer: Isn't that too much information for a README? Especially for an Alpha README release?

What's more this kind of information should belong in the documentation site (like ReadTheDocs), not README. Plus, it's already discussed in the ADR from @raduom, so we should probably wait until the ADR is complete before we can say anything about the design choices.

Reviewer 2: I don't think too much information is a bad thing. I think no one knows what Marconi is, so the more we write about it the better. Worst case scenario we will receive heart-breaking feedback on it.

Author: That's exactly the challenge of this Alpha release -- for it to be succinct. When there is meaningful brief information that seems like it could be useful for readers to know, I'm including it. At the same time, there is quite a bit that I'm excluding.

Reviewer: :+1:

# Installation

Prerequisite: You already have a Cardano node running. 

## Example command for launching Cardano node 

```
cardano-node run \
    --config mainnet-config.json \
    --topology mainnet-topology.json \
    --database-path db \
    --socket-path /tmp/node-mainnet.sock \
    --port 3003
```

> 

Reviewer: Add a section saying that the configuration files are available here: https://hydra.iohk.io/build/7654130/download/1/index.html

Author: Will do. I'll take care of this a little bit later today.

## Marconi executable

The `marconi` executable is available as a nix flake.

You may either clone the [`plutus-apps`](https://github.com/input-output-hk/plutus-apps)
repository and run from the top-level:
``` 
nix build .#marconi
``` 
Or you may run from anywhere:
```
nix build github:input-output-hk/plutus-apps#marconi
``` 

Both commands will produce a `result` directory containing the executable 
`result/bin/marconi`.

## Example command for launching Marconi

```
./result/bin/marconi --socket-path /tmp/node-mainnet.sock --mainnet --datum-db datum.sqlite3 --utxo-db utxo.sqlite3

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
## Querying the SQL Database

A. Datum indexer

The database contains only one table defined as:

```
CREATE TABLE kv_datumhsh_datum (datumHash TEXT PRIMARY KEY, datum BLOB, slotNo INT);
```

The basic query that you can run is:

```
SELECT datum from kv_datumhsh_datum WHERE datumHash = ?;
```

B. Utxo indexer

The database contains two tables, one for unspent transactions and one for spent inputs. They are defined as follows:

```
CREATE TABLE utxos (address TEXT NOT NULL, txId TEXT NOT NULL, inputIx INT NOT NULL);
CREATE TABLE spent (txId TEXT NOT NULL, inputIx INT NOT NULL);
```

After you are fully synchronised you may run a couple of SQL statements to make sure that the query speed is optimised.

First, to create indices:

```
CREATE INDEX utxo_address ON utxos (address);
CREATE INDEX utxo_refs ON utxos (txId, inputIx);
CREATE INDEX spent_refs ON spent (txId, inputIx);
```

Then, to match inputs and outputs and trim the database:

```
DELETE FROM utxos WHERE utxos.rowid IN (SELECT utxos.rowid FROM utxos LEFT JOIN spent on utxos.txId = spent.txId AND utxos.inputIx = spent.inputIx WHERE spent.txId IS NOT NULL);
VACUUM;
```

And we can run the query using:

```
SELECT address, txId, inputIx FROM utxos LEFT JOIN spent ON utxos.txId = spent.txId AND utxos.inputIx = spent.inputIx WHERE utxos.txId IS NULL AND utxos.address = ?
```

Making `K` configurable makes the design quite scalable. Developers do not usually need to guard themselves against rollbacks by `K` blocks, so they can choose to store only 10 events in memory, for example, thereby sacrificing the correctness of handling rollbacks for memory usage.

In the event of a restart, recovery is very simple. Marconi stores only fully confirmed transactions, so there is nothing to do other than to load the state persisted on disk and to follow the blockchain from the corresponding chain-point. 

## Queries

The indexed data is accessible through queries. There are no constraints on the format of queries or on the results. Both are identified by a type variable that the indexer exposes. The user, such as a dApp developer, provides the code for the query, result types and the functions used to query and store events on disk. 

This is currently the only area where you can customize the indexer by providing functions that handle queries and storage. Note that the queries have to run on both the in-memory data and the data that is stored.

# Installation

Prerequisite: You already have a Cardano node running. 

## Example command for launching Cardano node 

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The synchronisation should take about 3.5h and it will consume around 9Gb of RAM, when synchronising both indexers at the same time.

```

```
cardano-node run \
    --config mainnet-config.json \
    --topology mainnet-topology.json \
    --database-path db \
    --socket-path /tmp/node-mainnet.sock \
    --port 3003
```

The configuration files are available here: 

[`configuration-files`](https://hydra.iohk.io/build/7654130/download/1/index.html)

## Marconi executable

The `marconi` executable is available as a nix flake.

You may either clone the [`plutus-apps`](https://github.com/input-output-hk/plutus-apps)
repository and run from the top-level:
``` 
nix build .#marconi
``` 
Or you may run from anywhere:
```
nix build github:input-output-hk/plutus-apps#marconi
``` 

Both commands will produce a `result` directory containing the executable 
`result/bin/marconi`.

## Example command for launching Marconi
The synchronisation should take about 3.5h and it will consume around 9Gb of RAM, when synchronising both indexers at the same time.
```

> ./result/bin/marconi --socket-path /tmp/node-mainnet.sock --mainnet --datum-db datum.sqlite3 --utxo-db utxo.sqlite3

Reviewer 2: ``````suggestion
./result/bin/marconi --socket-path /tmp/node-mainnet.sock --mainnet --datum-db datum.sqlite3 --utxo-db utxo.sqlite3
```
## Querying the SQL Database
A. Datum indexer

The database contains only one table defined as:

```
CREATE TABLE kv_datumhsh_datum (datumHash TEXT PRIMARY KEY, datum BLOB, slotNo INT);
```

The basic query that you can run is:

```
SELECT datum from kv_datumhsh_datum WHERE datumHash = ?;
```

B. Utxo indexer

The database contains two tables, one for unspent transactions and one for spent inputs. They are defined as follows:

```
CREATE TABLE utxos (address TEXT NOT NULL, txId TEXT NOT NULL, inputIx INT NOT NULL);
CREATE TABLE spent (txId TEXT NOT NULL, inputIx INT NOT NULL);
```

After you are fully synchronised you may run a couple of SQL statements to make sure that the query speed is optimised.

First, to create indices:

```
CREATE INDEX utxo_address ON utxos (address);
CREATE INDEX utxo_refs ON utxos (txId, inputIx);
CREATE INDEX spent_refs ON spent (txId, inputIx);
```

``````
